---
layout: post
title: Frequently Asked Questions
permalink: /faq
---
### What all does the App block?
The App provides **System wide** blocking of malicious trackers and other spyware. This means that the entire internet traffic of the device is routed through the VPN tunnel which is wholly resident on the device. This includes all software and browsers on your device. Please see the [How it Works](http://info.tulabyte.com/how-it-works) page to get a better picture of the app's working.

### Please explain in layman's terms what the App does.
The easiest way to describe the App's functioning is by using an analogy of a person writing a letter to their Social Media Account. 

As things stand at the moment, the level of digital surveillance on your device translated to the real world would mean that everything you touched in the process of writing and posting that letter would be spying on you. That includes your House, your Drapes, your Table, the Light bulbs in your room, your Pen, the Ink in your Pen, the Paper you're writing the letter on, the post box that you post the letter in. You name it, and it would be tracking and reporting on your every move. 

What this App does is block all this tracking. The only person that will know what you wrote in that letter would be you and the person you addressed that letter to. The fact that you posted the letter to a Social Media Account and announced it to the whole wide world is your prerogative. Your privacy should be in your control and not some faceless entity that's making billions of it. What you do with it is your choice.

See the [How it Works](http://info.tulabyte.com/how-it-works) page for more.

### What are some possible use cases for the App?
The App is suitable for anyone interested in taking control of their privacy online, but especially useful for (and in) the following scenarios - 

1. Parents of School going children - where students are using devices in school for schoolwork. How do the students and their parents know that they're not being tracked maliciously?
2. Schools & other Educational Institutions - to ensure that students enrolled in their institutions aren't being maliciously tracked while using their online services.
3. Government Departments & their Employees
4. Venue Check-ins - to stop venues from tracking their patrons (especially when check-ins are mandatory due to Covid-19 restrictions). Do you really want the neighborhood diner informing every malicious tracker exactly what time you were there and exactly what you ate?
5. Travelers - people travelling for business or pleasure - you especially don't want to be tracked when you're not in your own safe environs.
6. People who are otherwise vulnerable - for example following the death of a loved one, or a recent divorce etc.

In all these scenarios (and more), our App can help.

### What are the custom allowlist & blocklist and how can I use them?
The custom blocklist feature allows the user to customize their control of the internet experience. Besides just ordinary users using the feature to enhance their privacy on the internet, some of the following use cases can be envisioned -

- People able to customize the blocklist according to their needs
- Parental Control - Parents able to load a blocklist to manage their child's online time/presence
- Addiction Management - Users able to use blocklists to manage online addiction
- Schools & Educational Organizations - custom blocklists to control use of official resources (easily scalable & easy to roll out)
- Corporations - custom blocklists to control use of official resources
- Governments

Users can customize their blocklist by adding additional blocking items to the App, either individually or in bulk by importing a blocklist file. 

**Please note that this file must be a simple TEXT (txt) file with a list of URLs for the App to recognise the additions to the blocklist.** 

The App will still use the original blocklist that came with the App, along with the new items added for blocking. These can then be removed at any time later or further fine-tuned as per personal preferences.

### My device says I've installed a VPN Profile for the app, yet it's not a VPN. Why is it so and if it's not a proper VPN, then why not?
The way the app works is to create a VPN tunnel onboard the device that loops back onto the device (please see the [How it Works](http://info.tulabyte.com/how-it-works) page for more info). For a normal VPN service, this would be done on the VPN service's servers. This means that they are able to access all your data before it leaves their servers. Our approach ensures that no one has access to your information besides you.

For this very reason, we don't want to offer a VPN service, as it would defeat the whole purpose of providing our users with a way to secure their information.

We are, however, working on a solution that would make a VPN service redundant for all legitimate users. 

### Why are you capturing emails? What about Email Analytics?
We're asking you to register with your email so that we can inform you about our upcoming products or any important updates in the app. Note that the app is wholly resident on your device and we have no way of getting any information from it. Further, we've developed it in a way that there are no data leaks from you to us. Unfortunately, this means that there is no notification feature in the app. So informing you via email would be the only way that we can inform you of any new updates.

Of course this is wholly optional and can be un-subscribed from at any time by following a one step unsubscribe link in the email itself. 

Further, we've looked hard and found an email managing service that expressedly does not collect any information about it's users, and lets us turn off any and all analytics features for any data that may be captured in the process (unfortunately, it's impossible to collect any little bit of data in today's world without some data leakage).

As already stated elsewhere on our website and in the app, we'll only use this email to inform you about our upcoming products or any updates with the app. No Ads. No Spam. No Selling your data to anyone.

### Why is there a delay in updating the widget with blocking stats from the app?\
This is due to Apple's resource management on your device. This resource management is dynamic (as in, it takes in the behaviour of all the apps and system on the device) and then allocates them resources for best viewing by the user. As such, this is not something that we can control.